All right, let's get started.
My name is Max Muller.
I run the Digital Supply
Chain Engineering Group,
responsible for iBooks, iTunes,
and the App Stores.
In this session,
we're going to be looking
at in-app purchasing.
In-app purchasing was added in iOS 3.0,
and in the past two years has grown to
represent a significant portion of the
revenue generated by our developers.
If you look at the App Store today,
in the top grossing application chart,
of the top 25 applications
in the App Store,
14 of them are free and generating all
of the revenue through the use of an app.
Now before we get started,
I'd like to extend a warm welcome
to our Mac OS X developers.
On Monday, we announced that with Lion,
we are bringing In-App Purchasing
to the Mac App Store.
So let's look at what
we're going to cover today.
First, we'll do a brief introduction
on what is an In App Purchase.
Next, we'll look at the types of
In App Purchases we currently support.
We'll look at how you set up your
In App Purchases in iTunes Connect.
We'll then look at how you
test your In App Purchases in
our sandbox test environment.
And finally, how you submit your
In App Purchases for review.
Then we'll jump into the client side and
look at Store Kit on both iOS and iOS X.
This will be looking at how you retrieve
In App Purchase items from the server,
how you initiate transactions
and complete transactions,
and finally, how you verify receipts.
We'll then do a deep dive
into our newest In-App type,
the auto-renewing subscription.
We'll follow it up with In-App reporting,
and finally wrap it up
with some best practices.
So let's get right into it.
What is an In-App Purchasse?
In a nutshell,
this allows enhanced functionality
and content to be sold directly
within your application.
This is implemented
using the Store Kit API,
which was introduced in iOS
3.0 and is now new for Lion.
Store Kit handles all of the
prompting the user to authenticate,
as well as securely
authorizing the transaction.
Once the transaction is complete,
you will be given back a receipt.
You can take that receipt
and pass it to your server,
which can then pass it to
our server for verification.
This is a great tool for
helping fight piracy.
One other thing to point out about
In-App Purchasing is that In-App is
strictly a commerce level feature.
If after a transaction is complete,
it is your responsibility to
deliver any assets from your server
down to a device or to a computer.
Now, a few example usages would be adding
a pay feature to a free application,
adding additional levels to a game,
or purchasing virtual
goods like vegetables,
berries, or brains.
And finally, what launched a few months
back with the Daily,
we've now implemented a full
auto-renewing subscription.
Allows you to add full subscription
support to your applications.
So now let's look at the types of
In App Purchases we currently support.
There are four of them: Non-Consumable,
Consumable, Non-Renewing Subscription,
and Auto-Renewing Subscription.
So diving into the non-consumable,
this is available on iOS
and is now new for Lion.
This is designed to be purchased
once and only once by a customer.
If you think of how the
App Store works for applications,
if you were to buy an app on one
device and then attempt to buy that
same application on a second device,
we would allow you to download
that application on the
second device again for free.
Non-consumable In-App Purchases
work in the exact same way.
We will only ever charge the
customer once for the purchase
of a non-consumable In-App.
Now,
one other thing to point out is that it
is your responsibility to ensure that
non-consumable In-Apps are made available
across all devices for a given user.
You do this using the Restore
Completed Transactions API,
which we'll be going into
more detail later on.
Two examples here would be a new
level in a game or an additional
feature in an application.
Next up are consumables.
These are available on
iOS and now new for Lion.
These are designed to be purchased
multiple times by the consumer.
Every time a transaction is
completed for the same item,
the user will be charged again.
Again,
a few examples would be pet food or
other items that are consumed as part of
gameplay or virtual currency within the
application as a means of advancement.
Next up is non-renewing subscriptions.
This is only available on iOS.
We introduced the non-renewing
subscription in iOS 3.
It is required that you, the developer,
do all the work to implement
subscription management on your own.
We've now deprecated the non-renewing
subscriptions in favor of the
auto-renewing subscriptions.
Now the auto-renewing subscriptions we're
not going to cover right here because
we have an entire separate section
that we will go over those in detail.
So now let's look at how you'd
set up a non-consumable or
consumable in iTunes Connect.
First up is the metadata about
your In App Purchase item.
This would be the type,
either consumable or non-consumable.
A reference name,
this is only your name for
the In App Purchase item.
This actually will not be
displayed to the customer anywhere.
Next is a product ID.
This is how you will reference
the In App Purchase item.
Through Store Kit,
you'll be passing the product ID to
look it up from the server side.
The product ID will also appear
in your financial reports
at the end of the month.
Next up would be your display
name and display description.
Here you can localize it into
as many languages as you want.
One thing to note is that Store Kit,
when it actually is popping
up the purchase dialog,
that's actually a server-driven dialog.
So we're using the display name that
you've entered into iTunes Connect in
the dialog that's popped up for the user.
Next would be pricing,
where you'd be setting cleared for sale,
as well as a price tier.
All price tiers are available,
with the exception of the free tier.
And finally, for review purposes only,
we ask you to provide a screenshot.
Now to get to add In App Purchas
items to an application,
you log in iTunes Connect,
select the application,
and click Manage In App Purchases.
You'll then click the
Add New In-App Purchase
Item and select the type.
In this case,
I'm going to choose a consumable.
First up,
we'll be setting up the reference name,
as well as the product ID.
So I've set up rockets.
And we recommend using a reverse
domain name syntax for your product ID.
Once that's set up,
you'll now be adding the
localizations for the display
name and the display description.
Here we recommend localizing all
of your In App Purchas items in the
same number of languages for which
you've localized your application.
Next up would be pricing.
And finally, again,
for review purposes only, a screenshot.
So once you've set up all of
your In-App Purchas items,
the next step is to test them.
For this,
we've actually built an entirely separate
environment that we call the Sandbox.
A few things to point
out about the Sandbox:
development-signed builds of iOS
or OS X are automatically pointed
at the Sandbox environment.
Payments are not processed
in the Sandbox environment,
but transactions are returned.
And you must leverage a special
Sandbox test user account,
not your regular store production
account for Sandbox testing.
Now the sandbox test accounts,
the same sandbox test account
can work on both iOS and
Lion In-App Purchaset testing.
Also,
if you are using application receipt
verification for app purchases for OS X,
the same sandbox account
can work for that as well.
Now one thing that we always like
to point out about when using the
sandbox is that you must first
log out on your device of your
production iTunes store account,
go into Settings,
select Store and Log Out.
Leave yourself logged out, quit Settings,
and then launch your application.
If you are successfully pointing out
the sandbox environment on all the
store kit dialogues that come through,
you will see environment:sandbox.
To create a sandbox user,
you're going to log into iTunes Connect,
click Manage Users,
and click Add New User.
At this point,
you'll select the test user.
Here we'll prompt you for all the basic
information about setting up an account,
the most important one being
the iTunes store or country.
For each country that you wish
to test your In App Purchases in,
in terms of localized display
as well as currency handling,
you want to set up a separate
iTunes sandbox test account.
Now once you have tested
your In-App items,
and I mean thoroughly
tested your In-App items,
the final step is for submission.
Now the first time you submit
any In-App Purchases items,
they must be submitted
with an application binary.
This means that we're going to
tie your In-App Purchases items
and your application together.
We're going to move through
the review process as one.
If there are issues with
either In-App Purchases items
or your application binary,
they'll all be rejected back
to you to essentially correct.
Now once you have an application
live on the App Store,
you can then submit new
future In-App Purchases
items in an ad hoc manner.
In which case, you're just setting up
In-App Purchases items,
submitting them,
and they travel through the
review process independent.
To submit one In App Purchasse item,
log in iTunes Connect,
select that In App Purchasse item,
and click on the upper right hand
corner to submit it for review.
And if your application has
lots of In App Purchasse items,
we also provide a nice listing interface.
You can see all your
In App Purchasse items,
select the ones you want,
and with one click,
submit all of those for review.
And now what I'd like to do is
bring up Jean-Pierre to walk us
through Store Kit on iOS and OS X.
Jean-Pierre?
Thank you, Max.
Hi, my name is Jean-Pierre Ciudaad,
and I am the engineering
manager for the Mac App Store.
So I'm here today to talk to
you about the Store Kit API,
both on iOS and on Mac OS X.
So first, I will start by giving you
an overview of the API,
and then I will spend more time telling
you about how you can get product
information for your in-app purchases,
how you can actually purchase
in-app purchases from the app store,
and how you can restore
completed transactions.
Finally, I will spend more time telling
you about receipts and what the
differences are between iOS and Mac OS.
Now, if you are an iOS developer who is
already familiar with in-app purchases,
you will find this
presentation very familiar,
because the API is essentially
identical between iOS and Mac OS X.
So let's start right away with
an overview of the Store Kit API.
So step by step,
the first thing you need to do is to
get your In App Purchases identifiers,
the product identifiers.
You get these either from
your application bundle,
or you get them from your server.
Once you have those identifiers,
you actually use the Store Kit API to
get product information.
The product information
includes things like the title,
the localized title,
localized description, and the price.
This is what you will use to
actually show UI in your application,
and let the user decide
which items he wants to buy.
Once the user clicks on the Buy button
on one of your In-App Purchases,
you want to actually make the purchase.
So you make the purchase
using the Store Kit API,
and you do it from the App Store.
Once the purchase is successful,
or once the purchase has been processed,
you will need to actually process
the transaction on your side.
And what that means is that either
handle the error if there is one,
or process the receipt,
and we'll talk about
this a little bit later.
If the transaction is successful,
the user's credit card has been charged
or his account has been debited,
you need to make the feature available
to the user or you need to download
additional assets from your server.
And once you're done with that,
you need to tell us,
you need to tell the App Store that
the transaction was finished.
This is very important.
If you forget to do that,
we will keep bringing back the unfinished
transaction over and over again,
every time the user
launches the application.
So out of those seven steps,
four steps actually we will
be providing you with APIs in
Store Kit for four of these steps.
Getting the product information,
making the purchase,
processing the transaction,
and finishing the transaction.
So let's look at those steps.
How do you get product information?
So like I said earlier,
the first thing you need to do
is to get the list of product
identifiers out of your application
bundle or from your server.
Now those product identifiers should
match the data you've been entering
in iTunes Connect previously.
So once you have this array
of product identifiers,
you use the SK product
request to create the request.
So here you have an example of
how you can create the request.
You can see that you pass
in an array of identifiers.
You set yourself as a delegate,
and then you start the request.
Now, you need to implement the SK product
request delegate protocol.
And obviously,
you need to implement the product request
In that method,
you will get a response back,
and the response will
contain an array of products,
and that array of products,
for each product,
you will get a localized name,
localized description, and the price.
Now, you will also be getting an array
of invalid product identifiers.
What these are,
they are identifiers that you
actually have passed to the App Store,
but we didn't recognize them.
So this could happen if, for example,
you have hard-coded
identifiers in your app,
but you have not yet entered
them into iTunes Connect.
Now, in production,
this could also be in-app purchases
that were submitted but not approved.
You also need to handle the error case,
obviously,
and present appropriate UI to the user.
So once you have the list of
products and you have the names
and the price and all that,
you need to actually show UI,
and you need to let the user decide
which In App Purchas he wants to buy.
So once a user clicks the Buy button,
you know what product
the user wants to buy,
and you need to prepare for the purchase.
So the first thing you do,
you need to add yourself as an
observer of the SK Payment Queue.
The SK Payment Queue
is an asynchronous API.
You need to implement the SK Payment
Transaction Observer protocol.
So here you can see the Payment Queue,
which will be the callback
that will be invoked once the
payment has been processed.
So how do you make the purchase?
With the product that the user selected,
you create an SK payment.
And then you just add this
SK payment to the payment queue.
And that's all you need to do.
What will happen is that your observer,
once the payment has been processed,
your observer will get called,
and you will get an array of transactions
when your observer gets called.
And if you bought one product,
you will get one transaction back.
You will see a case later with
restoring where you can get an
array of them when you're restoring.
But for now,
you get one transaction back,
and you're going to check
the state of the transaction.
If the state is purchased,
or the SK payment
transaction state purchased,
that means that the
transaction was successful,
the user has been charged,
so you need to make the asset available.
At that moment,
receipt data is also available,
and we'll talk about
that a little bit later.
Another state that you can
have is the transaction failed.
And in that case,
you need to show UI to the user.
Now, if the state is purchased, again,
you need to make the content
available to the user,
either by downloading additional
data from your server or by unlocking
features in your application.
Then you need to complete
the transaction by calling
Finish Transaction on the payment queue.
Again, this is something very important.
Do not forget to do that.
And you need to do it whether the
transaction was successful or failed.
Restoring.
So Max earlier talked about
restoring completed transactions.
So if the user decides to move the
application on a different device,
or to re-download the application
from the Mac App Store,
for example, on a different Mac,
the user is entitled to get all
these non-consumable In App Purchases
back on the different device.
So the way you do this,
you can get all of them at once by
calling restoreCompletedTransactions
on the payment queue.
Basically, the same observer that you
set earlier will be called
with a list of transactions.
That's when you get an
array of transactions.
And then for each of the transactions,
you need to verify the state,
make the content available to the user,
and then for each of them,
you need to call finish
transaction in the payment queue.
Optionally, you can also implement,
I'm not going to read it,
but you can implement
this method at the end,
which basically would allow you,
for example,
to stop a progress bar if you
decided to show progress in your app.
Restoring, by the way,
is not currently available
in the DP4 version of Lion,
so for Mac OS developers,
if you try the restoring APIs,
they are not yet fully implemented,
but they will be available
for the GM version.
Receipts.
So receipts are signed
files signed by Apple,
and those files allow you to verify
the purchase of In App Purchases.
They are very different
between iOS and Mac OS.
The format is different.
So on iOS, receipts are opaque.
You cannot read them.
And when on Mac OS,
they are using an industry standard
for signed archive called PKCS7.
And you can find
documentation on the web.
How do you verify the receipt?
On iOS,
you send the receipt to your server,
and your server is supposed to
turn around and send it to Apple.
What Apple will do is that
it will actually expose the
information in the receipt for you.
And it will send it back to your server.
And then your server can decide whether
or not to make assets available.
On Mac OS,
because this is a standard format,
you are able to verify
the receipt locally.
So you can do it on launch
of your application,
or you can do it whenever you want.
In addition to that,
we are planning to make
receipt verification available
by your server with Apple.
This is not yet in place,
but it will be in place by
the time we go GM online.
The scope of the receipt.
The iOS receipt is specific
to one In App Purchas.
What that means is that if the
user made 100 In App Purchases,
you will have 100 receipts in
your application container.
Very different on Mac OS.
The receipt that contains the
In App Purchases on Mac OS is exactly the
same receipt as the one that is delivered
today when the user purchases the app.
So that same receipt,
in addition to containing
information about the app purchase,
will contain information about
all the In App Purchases.
Actually, sorry, let me rephrase that.
About all the non-consumable
In App Purchases.
How do you get the receipt?
On iOS, the receipt data is available for
you as part of an NSData blob that
comes back with the transaction
when the transaction is successful.
basically purchased or restored.
On Mac OS,
the receipt is actually delivered into
your application bundle by the App Store.
This happens automatically,
you have nothing to do.
On iOS,
when I mentioned the blob of data,
you are responsible for taking
that data and saving it in
the application container.
So you can see that receipts are very
different between iOS and Mac OS X.
And this is basically the
main difference in the
Store Kit API between iOS and Mac OS X.
So let me,
just to make sure we all agree on this,
let me go back a little
bit on the differences.
iOS receipts, this is a blob,
you get it via a blob of NIS data that
is a property of the transaction object,
and you will get the data
when the transaction was
either purchased or restored.
You are responsible for saving the
receipt in the application container.
You can use that receipt to verify
transactions by sending it to your server
and have your server send it to Apple.
Mac OS Receipt, however,
are placed in the application
bundle by the App Store.
This is done for you automatically
every time a transaction is successful.
There is one receipt per application.
The same receipt today that contains
information about the application
purchase also includes information
about all your in-app purchases,
all the non-consumable in-app purchases.
To validate, you need to validate the
in-app purchase -- well,
you need to validate in-app purchases
in launch if you want to enable
some features in your application.
So you can do that by
looking at the receipt.
You can do that locally.
It's a known archive format,
PKCS7 using an ASN1 format.
It's signed by Apple.
And the receipts on Mac OS are
tied to the machine.
And there is documentation
available today that will tell
you how to verify that the receipt
is valid on a specific machine.
Like I said, by the time we ship Lion,
you will be able to send the receipt to
Apple to extract data out of the receipt.
So a few tips.
Do not forget to call finish
transaction on the payment queue
every time you have a successful
transaction or a failed transaction.
Believe it or not, today on iOS,
this is the cause of most
problems that developers
encounter within app purchases.
People always forget to
call finish transactions.
So do not forget to do that.
It is best to register as
an EscapeMNQ observer on
launch of your application.
And the reason for that
is because some users may
Purchase something.
Purchase transactions take a while.
It could take up to 10 minutes.
And if this is the case,
the user may quit the application.
That means you will never
process the transaction back.
So you cannot make the asset available.
The next time the user
will launch the app,
by registering as an observer
of the escapement queue,
we will actually send
you back the transaction,
so you will be able to make the
asset available to the user.
Only restore in apps when the user
needs to access the in-app purchases.
So, for example, on the Mac,
if a user moves an application
to a different machine -- or,
actually, if the user redownloads the
application from the Mac App Store,
the receipt that you will get will
be a receipt that will only contain
the transaction for the application.
It will not contain the in-app purchases.
So you are responsible for
providing some UI for the user
to get back the in-app purchases.
Now, you could do it on launch as well.
But this is why we don't
want you to do it on launch.
We don't want you to do it on
launch because every time you
try to restore in-app purchases,
the first thing we will do is we
will ask the user to authenticate.
So it would be really strange if every
time the user double clicks the app,
it's presented with an off panel.
You wouldn't know why and
why do I have to do this.
So, you actually need to have either
a menu item or a button somewhere
to restore the in-app purchases.
And now for Mac OS developers,
you need to check the
receipt validity on launch.
So there are several reasons for that.
Like I said earlier,
receipts are machine specific.
You want to make sure that the
receipt that you currently have
in your application is not some
receipt that somebody posted
on the internet somewhere.
So by verifying the
validity of the receipt,
you will make sure that this receipt
is for the user that actually
purchased the In App Purchases.
If the receipt is invalid,
you need to exit with 173.
And when you do that,
we will do one of those two things.
If the application is a
production application,
which means it is currently
used by a regular user,
we will allow the user to
re-authenticate to the App Store,
and we will automatically
deliver a new receipt,
a valid receipt this time.
If the application is signed by you,
by the developer,
we will directly go to the sandbox and
we will deliver a test receipt that you
can then use to process In App Purchases.
Without a test receipt,
you will not be able to
process In App Purchases.
Very easy to get a test receipt.
Check if there is a
receipt in your app bundle.
If there isn't, exit 173.
You will be presented with an off panel.
You will enter your test user
account and we'll give you a receipt.
Again,
receipts are required to use the sandbox,
so if you think that your
In App Purchases are not working,
it's probably because
you didn't get a receipt,
you didn't exit 173.
And the store will automatically give
you a new receipt after you authenticate.
More information.
There is a document that we issued
last January and we've been updated.
This is for Mac OS X developers
that explains to you how to
verify App Store receipts.
There is another document that
explains to you how to submit your
application to the Mac App Store,
again for Mac OS X developers.
For iOS developers,
there is a document called
In-App Purchasse Programming Guide.
This documents the Store Kit API,
and because the Store Kit API is mostly
identical between iOS and Mac OS X,
this can be used on both platforms.
Finally, the Store Kit framework is
not located by default on DP4,
so you need to download
it from the ADC website.
And now, just to show you how
things come together,
I will show you a small demo of the
next top seller in the App Store,
the Fruit Stand.
So what the Fruit Stand is,
it's a small app.
The first thing we did was add ourselves
as an observer of the Escape MNQ,
and then we loaded a list of
In-App Purchases identifiers
from our app bundle.
And what I'm going to do,
I'm going to click on this beautiful UI,
this beautiful button,
Fetch Product Information.
And what that's going to do,
it's going to go to the
App Store and look at what we
have registered in iTunes Connect.
So for each of these product identifiers,
it's going to get the name, the price.
Obviously,
we didn't display the description.
So now that we have the name of our
In App Purchases and the prices,
we can actually populate our UI,
which we've just done by actually
adding those items in this pop-up menu.
So I'm going to purchase a banana.
So I select the product, click purchase.
At that point, we create the payment.
And we add it to the payment queue.
The App Store is going
to present that dialogue.
This is not your dialogue.
This is our dialogue.
So the user can confirm that
he wants to buy that item.
And you can see that you have here,
you know that you're working
out of the sandbox because we're
actually adding it to the dialog.
So I want to buy.
We present an authentication dialog.
So here I am entering
my test user account,
Apple ID and password.
If all goes well,
you will see that the transaction
has been moved to purchased.
We process the transaction.
We called finish transaction
and the app store is actually
displaying the thank you dialog.
And we made the asset available
by basically presenting
the picture we just bought.
Let me do it just a second time.
Let's try to purchase a lime this time.
Okay, confirm, authenticate.
And if all goes well,
I should get a picture of the lime.
So I think it's going to be a smash.
So let's look at how
How we've done this, very briefly.
So, now obviously this is
a Mac OS X application,
and...
Here, the first thing you want to do is,
if the receipt is not present
in your application bundle,
you want to exit 173.
So that the first thing you will be
asked to do is to authenticate with
your test user account to obtain
a receipt from the Mac App Store.
Second thing,
when your application finishes launching,
there are a couple things
you might want to do here.
If you want to make the non-consumable
available in your application,
like enabling features,
this is the place where you actually want
to look into your receipt to verify which
In App Purchases were actually purchased.
Then you can make those
In App Purchases available by unlocking
features or downloading content.
This is also where we have chosen
to actually get the list of product
identifiers out of our bundle.
You can do that somewhere
else if you want.
Anyway, so we got the purchase
fruits right there.
How do we get the product information?
Well,
we have a list of product identifiers,
and we're going to create
an escape product request.
We're going to set
ourselves as the delegate,
and then we're going
to start the request.
Prior to that, of course, you know,
we have implemented the
failure delegate method and
the successful delegate method,
where we actually get a response.
That response basically
contains an array of products.
And we use that array of products
to basically populate a pop-up menu.
Now the user selects an item
In the pop-up menu,
and what we need to do now is to
actually purchase the product.
Now, right at the beginning,
I don't know if
I actually pointed it out,
we actually registered ourselves here
as an observer of the SK Payment Queue.
So now we're going to create a payment
using the product that was previously
selected by the user in the pop-up menu.
So we create an SK Payment,
and then we add this payment
to the SK Payment queue.
Once the user confirms and clicks buy,
and once the purchase has been processed,
we will get our callback and
we will get a transaction.
Our callback will be invoked,
we'll get a transaction.
Now for each transaction,
we're going to look at
the transaction state.
And if the state was purchased,
we make the content
available to the user.
And very important,
we will actually call finish
transaction on the transaction.
If you were restoring,
for each transaction you
will get this state restored.
For each of the transactions,
you need to call finish transaction.
And you can see here that we
also called finish transaction
when the transaction was failed.
So this is it.
This is how we process
our In-App Purchases.
So to talk about
auto-renewable subscriptions,
Ricardo Cortes.
Good morning.
Thank you, JP.
Auto-renewables.
There's a lot of steps
in doing auto-renewables.
A lot of it's different from the
non-consumable and consumable case,
so we have a lot of things to cover.
We're going to give you a quick overview,
then we'll get into the
metadata differences between
non-consumables and consumables,
how to use that metadata
with auto-renewables,
receipts, policies,
the cancellation flow,
testing in Sandbox,
as well as how your app looks in
app review with auto-renewables.
Auto-renewables are
only available on iOS.
And they enable true subscription
support within your app.
Unlike the non-renewing subscription,
which is being deprecated,
this is the type you want
to use if you want to offer
your customers subscriptions.
And the subscription is
automatically renewed at the
end of the subscription period.
The customer is given the
option to opt out in iTunes.
There's a Manage Subscriptions
page in both iOS and on the
desktop version of iTunes.
And new content is automatically
delivered to all devices with
the same customer Apple ID.
Duration options: one week, one month,
two months, three months, six months,
and a year.
And yes, it is the most complex
In App Purchas type to implement,
so hopefully this presentation
and the many steps we're going
through will elucidate it for you.
A few examples.
Golf Digest.
LUS, and launch in early February the
first auto-renewable,
The Daily.
The developer in the auto-renew case
is responsible for checking receipts
to validate their subscriptions.
And you must pass over a generated
shared secret in iTunes Connect with your
receipt to validate that subscription.
Now, if you haven't purchased
an auto-renewable,
when you do so on iOS,
you're prompted to share
your personal information.
If the customer chooses yes,
you as the developer/publisher have the
option of providing a bonus duration.
You choose this bonus
duration in iTunes Connect,
and you are responsible for
displaying this bonus duration
UI in your application.
A privacy URL is required.
It's shown in the customer's invoice.
Now let's look at the iTunes
Connect setup pieces and how they differ
from non-consumables and consumables.
You go back to the
In App Purchase Type page,
you choose Auto Renewable.
And when you land on the pricing page,
there's a few extra fields.
There's the duration,
and then there's the offer
marketing opt-in incentive.
Upon choosing yes,
you're then given the option
of choosing a bonus duration.
And below the usual,
it's clear for sale and price tier
fields for all In App Purchases.
Now you get to the Reference
Name and Language page.
And in the Auto Renewable case,
the reference name can be
thought of as your family.
In this case,
I have Touch Fighter Game Strategy.
And I have two durations,
seven days and one month.
For most developers,
a single family/reference name in the
Auto Renewable case is sufficient.
Each of the durations is
presented as options in your UI.
And on the Manage
Description page in iOS,
the customer is given
the option to upsell,
say, from the seven-day to the one-month
subscription if the durations
are all part of the same family.
Here you can also localize your
auto-renewable in the various languages.
Privacy Policy URL, which is required in
the auto-renewable case,
as well as the ability to generate
your shared secret in iTunes Connect.
And now to talk a little bit about
how to use this metadata in the
auto renewables is David Neuman,
Engineering Manager, iTunes Store,
Commerce.
Dave.
Okay, so I want to start with something
that has affected a lot of folks,
because I've tried to help a
lot of developers do this stuff,
and I want to start off with, I guess,
landmine number one,
which is the difference in auto
renewables between the subscription
title and the offer title.
Okay, when you get back an SK product
in your Objective-C code,
it's got a field called Localize Title.
And unlike all the other
type of in-app subscriptions,
this isn't the name of the
specific offer the person's buying.
It's the name of this
collection of in-apps.
Okay, what the user's going to buy is
something like I have there for the,
for example, a weekly plan,
a monthly plan, or a yearly plan.
But this Localize Title needs
to be something for the
subscription as a whole.
I call it the subscription name,
and that's like, for example,
the Oregon Times.
Now, okay,
so if you don't use that thing directly,
if you don't use the Localize
Title on your SK product directly,
what is it used for?
Well, we use it at Apple, okay?
We need it for dialogues, as you've seen.
We need it for management UI,
which I'll go to in a second.
Okay,
so if you don't use that thing directly,
if you don't use the Localize
Title on your SK product directly,
what is it used for?
We need it for management UI,
which I'll go to in a second.
And we need it for emails.
But by you, directly in your app,
you might not even use it.
But nevertheless,
you need to have an offer name.
You need to put something
by that buy button.
So what we recommend is, of course,
start with a product ID.
For example, com.org.times.sub.1month.
If you encode the duration
inside of the product ID,
you can use that,
combine it with a Localize Title,
and you can present that to the user.
Okay,
so if you don't use that thing directly,
what is it used for?
You can present that to the user.
But the most flexible solution is
to take that product identifier,
send it to your server,
have your server translate it,
and put that output in,
put that by the buy button.
Okay.
Now here's an example of
how we use this metadata.
Because even if you don't
use it directly in your app,
it is very important because we use it,
and therefore your customers
are going to see it.
So this is just an excerpt of
what things look like in iTunes.
You go to iTunes, you select the account,
you select manage
subscriptions off of that,
you'll get a page,
and it'll list all the applications.
You'll see artwork and the
name of the application,
and underneath that,
all the subscriptions
that are in that app.
And yes, you can have more than one
subscription in a given application.
So I've highlighted there
Nylon Magazine iPad Edition,
and the subscription name
there is Nylon Magazine.
So let's say I click on one of these.
I'll see a page that looks like this.
Again, you see the app name and
the subscription name there.
And now here's what it looks like on iOS.
Same kind of deal.
You get a list of the applications
and you click on one of them and you
see all the subscriptions for that.
In this particular example
you've got two subscriptions
there for the particular app.
And then you select one of
them and you go to edit it.
Now, notice the subscription name is used
prominently on that final dialog
there where you see the description
name up there in the title bar.
Now, imagine if you had named
that something like,
I don't know, quarterly.
Okay.
And user can sometimes get to this last
page there to edit their subscription
off of a dialog or off of an email.
If that just said something like that,
it wouldn't be clear to the user
what it is they're actually editing.
So it's important you name -- you
give that display name in iTunes
Connect something which will make
sense for a context like this.
Okay.
So I want to talk a
little bit about receipts.
Because they are a little different.
It's the same format and stuff,
like you'd expect.
But there are a couple differences.
All the fields are pretty much
the same except for these two:
the purchase state field
and original transaction ID.
Now,
the purchase state on a non-consumable
is the date of download or re-download.
Basically, it's the date that that
download type of event happened.
But for auto renewables,
it's actually the date that
the purchase event happened.
Original transaction
ID for auto renewables,
this is the transaction ID of
that first subscription buy,
but it's also the transaction ID of
everything else that comes afterwards.
So I just want to kind of
explain how that works.
So you buy this thing.
You buy another one,
and it's got a renewal receipt.
So you've got the original
receipt and the renewal receipt.
They both have the same
original transaction ID.
You'd buy it again, the second renewal,
and now you've got, again,
the original transaction ID is
the same for all three of these.
And then you do a restore,
and when we restore,
we restore all -- we restore
receipt for every buy event.
And so all these guys have the
same original transaction ID.
In essence,
the original transaction ID is a
customer ID as far as you're concerned.
Okay.
So purchase state.
Similar deal.
You've got the original buy, the receipt,
and the renewal.
Each one of those, though,
is going to have a
different purchase state.
Now,
when it comes time to restore these guys,
you're going to get a
receipt for each of those.
But instead of being the date that the
restore happened -- I know you're going
to get a receipt for each of those,
but instead of being the date
that the restore happened,
I need to get a receipt
for each of those.
The purchase date is going to refer
-- is going to be the exact same date
of the transaction it's restoring.
The one new field is expire date.
It means what you think it means.
Just because the latest receipt
you have is expired doesn't mean
the subscription is inactive.
To find out whether or not a
subscription is truly inactive or not,
you need to invoke our verification API.
All right?
And so this is what happens when you
send that receipt for verification.
We're going to give you back a status.
If you get back status zero,
that means the subscription is active,
and maybe that's all you care about.
Now if anything goes wrong,
you're going to get one
of these error codes.
Now I highlight 21006 error
code down there because it's
not a true error code per se.
In essence, in other words,
there's nothing malformed
about the receipt.
There wasn't like any exception
happened on the server or anything.
It's just that that receipt, while valid,
is associated with a subscription
which is no longer active.
Oh, actually,
I do want to highlight a couple things.
The last two statuses are fairly new,
21007 and 21008,
Sandbox Receipts Sent to Production,
Production Receipts Sent to Sandbox.
These can come in handy for development,
and they can definitely come
in handy for app review.
Okay, so in addition to that status,
you're going to get
some other information.
Whenever you send a receipt to us,
we're going to crack it open.
That's sort of my phrase for that.
We're going to crack it open
and show you what's inside.
Basically,
you can get a JSON dictionary of all
those key value pairs that a receipt has.
And they'll be under a, in our response,
they'll be under a key called receipt.
Now, if the subscription is active,
you're going to get some other goodies.
And that includes the latest receipt,
just the brand new blob of
whatever the latest receipt is.
And this blob might be the same
as the receipt that was passed.
But you're also going to get this
field I call latest receipt info.
When we first rolled out auto renewables,
this wasn't available, but it is now.
And it saves you a round
trip to the server.
Basically,
we're just taking that latest receipt
and cracking it open right there.
Before, if you've used this previously,
you'd send a receipt to us,
we'd crack it open and
send it back to you.
And you'd have to immediately take
that blob and send it right back to
us so we could crack it open again.
Well,
here it's already there for you so you
can see everything that's inside it.
And I'd just like to point out this works
regardless of the receipt that you sent,
whether it's the latest one
that you had or the first one
you had or even a restored one.
It doesn't matter if it's
associated with that subscription.
We're going to give you back the
latest receipt and the latest
receipt info if it's active.
Now, if the subscription is inactive,
before, we just gave you status 2106.
And maybe that's all you cared about.
But frankly, it wasn't very helpful,
particularly in development.
So over the last, like, few months ago,
we introduced this additional field
called latest expired receipt info.
Again,
this is just a cracked open receipt
that just shows you information about
what that last good receipt was.
Now, this might not be relevant
for you in production,
but it definitely is
useful in development.
But it could be useful in production,
too, because you might want to offer
certain customers maybe a grace period.
And if you knew when the
last subscription lapsed,
you know, you could do that.
You could do something like that.
All right.
Now, restoring of these guys.
You might think that, well,
when you restore one
of these subscriptions,
you're just going to get back
maybe nothing if it's expired,
or maybe you get back the first one,
or maybe you get back the last one.
I just want to demystify this.
What you're going to
get back is everything.
For every single purchase event,
you're going to get back a receipt.
I kind of implied this
on an earlier slide,
but I just want to make it clear.
If you had a monthly subscription
and someone does a restore all,
they get a brand-new iPad,
they do a restore all on it,
you're going to get a receipt
for that original buy and
every single renew event.
And these receipts, of course,
have an expired date and
they've got a purchase date.
And they've got that original
transaction ID tying them all together.
So you have a full purchase history.
Now, some of you might think, well,
I don't really care about that.
I've got a streaming video app
or a streaming music app or maybe
I've got a level inside a game.
In a case like that, well,
you just care whether it's
active or inactive and that's it.
But if you have an application
which has publications,
it's got this content,
you're going to want to give it
back to the user most likely.
They get a brand-new iPad or maybe they
screwed up their iPad and they need to,
like, reload it.
With this information,
you know when everything
was good and when it wasn't.
And so you can say, okay,
they're entitled to this issue
and this issue and this issue.
And this is an important point because
having that quote there at the bottom,
physical magazines don't vanish on expiry
and digital ones don't have to either.
And with this information,
you can do that.
Okay, so how does the client become
aware of a renewal event?
We do this thing in the background.
So what's going on?
So we do the buy in the
background on our servers.
We put a transaction in the queue.
So then the question becomes,
when does the application
actually check the queue?
All right, just to be clear,
it checks on launch,
and it checks when an application
rotates out of the background.
So what I mean by that is,
you're in the application,
you go to check mail,
you answer a phone call, whatever,
you come back to the app,
and then it checks.
Now, I bring this up,
because normally it's like, so what?
This thing's lasted a
minimum of seven days.
Of course,
that kind of thing's going to happen.
What's the big deal?
The big deal is if you're in
development and you don't know this,
you're sitting there with your app,
you might not ever switch
away from it or restart it,
and something renews, and you go,
how come I don't see something?
Well, this might be why.
Maybe you haven't switched
away or bounced the app.
Okay,
now there's another way of doing renew.
I call it the interactive renewal.
It's what happens when
you click buy inside your
application for a subscription
the user's already purchased.
So what happens when you
click a buy button like that?
Well,
if the subscription is currently active,
you're going to see a dialogue.
We'll basically say, hey,
this user's already -- Mr.
User, you've already subscribed to this.
You can click this button
to dismiss this dialogue.
You can click this button called manage,
and it'll actually take you to
one of those screens you saw
at the beginning of my talk.
So you can click this button
to manage the subscription.
Now, if the subscription is expired,
or I should say totally inactive,
we're going to do the buy right there.
In fact, the experience is just like if
they bought it the first time.
And, in fact,
the only difference is you're not going
to see that data sharing opt-in dialogue.
Otherwise, it looks exactly the same.
And it behaves just like any
other kind of renewal as well.
So this is going to be important when
you start working in the sandbox because
of some limitations in the sandbox,
which we'll get to in a moment.
So we're going to go over all these,
but I do want to stress the first three.
Just so you know,
we renew a few hours before expiry so we
can guarantee some level of continuity.
And another thing you might not know
because it's not in the docs is if
you jack up the price or you take
something and you make it unavailable,
we're going to disable auto renew.
We're going to send an
e-mail to the customer,
and it's going to be up to that
customer to respond to that e-mail.
There's a link on it to go straight
into the management screen so they can
go and decide what they're going to do.
Now, let's say you have a
year-long subscription.
Just because the price goes up
for an hour and then back down,
like maybe you screwed up or maybe
just an accident happened and something
became temporarily unavailable,
that isn't going to cause this
storm of e-mails going out and
auto renew getting disabled.
That's because we don't
check immediately.
What we do is we just basically,
like for a year-long subscription,
we're going to check
10 days before expiry.
That's when we're going to make
these checks for price increase
and for item unavailable.
And then that gives the user, like,
a little bit of time to check.
At least a little over a week to get
that e-mail and decide are they going to
actually renew with a new higher price,
or are they going to -- that gives them
some time to choose maybe a different
duration with which to renew with.
Okay, so a little bit on cancellation.
Cancellation is a word that can mean
different things to different people,
so I want to be clear on the
different flavors of cancellation.
I would say there's no
cancellation per se for the user.
What a user can do is
manage their subscription,
go into the management screen and flip
a switch that turns out or a new off.
That in no way invalidates
their current subscription.
All it does is, it says, "Okay,
I'm just not going to buy the
next one." That's all that means.
Now, having said that,
our support organization,
for customer satisfaction reasons,
does have the ability to
do a true cancellation.
If someone calls up and says
their kid just ordered a $60
subscription to something for
a year and it was an accident,
support may elect to go, "Okay, fine,
we'll refund that." Now,
when they refund that, it changes how you
respond to verify receipt.
You send a receipt to us on something
that's been canceled like this,
even if the expired
date is in the future,
we're going to come back and say that,
"Hey, this is 21-006 inactive."
That can be useful for,
I guess,
fraud or maybe you don't even care,
but I just want to let you
know that's what we do there.
Okay, now a little bit about how
this works in the Sandbox.
Sandbox is supposed to
be just like production.
Unfortunately, for auto renewables,
it can't be like production
because we can't have you sitting
around waiting seven days just
to wait for something to renew.
So, and we don't want these things
to renew over and over again.
So the first thing new about Sandbox,
different than production,
is we automatically cap renewals at six.
And stuff renews really fast.
You might want to test with years,
and I'm not kidding.
Stuff renews so fast,
sometimes the renewal
happens after expiry.
I just told you earlier that renew
happens like hours before expiry.
But in Sandbox,
if you have a subscription
that is over in three minutes,
it might be a minute after expiry
before the thing actually renews.
And finally, the management interfaces
are not available.
Okay?
So those screens that I showed you at
the beginning that the user gets to see,
they're not available in
Sandbox because Sandbox is a
server-only type of environment.
All right, so here's the -- I'm not
going to go over all of these,
but as you notice at the top,
seven days is three minutes.
One year is 60 minutes.
So that means if you do the
seven-day one for three minutes,
in 18 minutes, 18 to 20 minutes,
it's already expired.
And I bring this up again so developers
aren't mystified by what's happening.
They subscribe to this thing,
they go and get a latte, they come back,
and they go, "Wow, nothing renewed,
and this thing says it's expired.
It's busted." It's not
necessarily busted.
It just means that it is dead now.
It has totally expired,
and it actually renewed six times.
Okay, so why do we cap at six?
Number one,
we want to allow you to test how your
app handles the end of a subscription.
Number one.
Number two, the fact that this thing goes
expired means you can use that
interactive buy to do a few things.
Basically turn your app into
the management interface because
you can do that interactive buy.
You can basically wait, buy another one,
maybe wait again, buy it again.
You can also change the duration.
Maybe you started with a
weekly and you waited a bit
and you bought with a monthly.
Anyway,
this allows you to test a non-contiguous
history and it allows you to change
durations and test with that too.
You can create a fairly complex history,
do restore all on a blanked out
device and test how things work
in all those different cases.
Okay, and finally,
I'm going to talk about auto-renew
and the app review flow,
because I don't want you to
get hung up in app review.
I want you to understand how this works.
What we do in app review is we
put your app in the sandbox,
the same sandbox you were
using for development.
But we don't use a developer-signed app,
we use a production-signed app.
Now, why do we do that?
Well, we need to review what
customers will receive.
Now, some bugs only affect a
production-signed app,
and we don't want to basically
have a brick go out into the store.
But the problem is you've
got a half-production,
half-development situation here.
So to elaborate on what I mean by that,
if you're in development,
you've got a test dev app that's
talking to your test server,
and both of those things
are talking to our sandbox.
Now, you go into production,
and you've got a production application,
it's talking to a production server,
probably, it's probably wired to only
talk to your production server,
and it's all talking to
Apple's production servers.
But if you get into app
review in the middle,
we're in this sort of weird state
where you've got a production-signed
app that's probably talking
to your production server,
and yet both of those things
have to talk to our sandbox.
Now, it's easy for us to fool the
app to thinking it's talking to
production with some DNS tricks,
where it talks to our sandbox,
but that doesn't apply to your server.
So you see your server
in the middle there,
it seems to be -- it's like we're
asking it to the impossible.
The production dev server needs
to talk to our sandbox in one
case for receipt verification,
and it needs to talk to our
production in another case.
So how can you accomplish this?
What most people do is the first
option is sort of avoid it altogether.
I call it the "darkness" option.
I call it the "smart production
signed app." In this situation,
the app knows the live version,
maybe by talking to
your production server,
and it knows what version it is.
And so that's enough information for
it to select the right version of
your server for receipt verification.
Now, the other option is what I call the
"smart production server." In this case,
your client would pass a version
number that it is and the receipt,
and then your server would go, "Okay,
I know what's live.
I know what I just received.
I'll send this to the sandbox or send it
to production." That's another way to go.
The third way, which might be the best --
I think this is maybe how I do it,
but it wasn't initially available
-- is to take advantage of
one of those statuses I talked
about earlier on in the talk.
I call this the "reactive
production server." In this case,
your production server
receives a receipt,
and it just always goes
"receipt to Apple production
for verification." "Receipt,
Apple production for verification." Okay?
And the only time it does anything
different is when it gets back 2107,
you know, double 07.
That means sandbox receipt
sent to production.
If you get that,
then you go off and you send it to
our sandbox and then just proceed.
So I like this better
because there's no checking.
There's no version passing.
No one has to know what
the active version is.
It sort of just works,
and the only time you have an extra call
is in that case where you actually hit
the sandbox or need to hit the sandbox.
So that concludes what
I needed to squeeze in here.
To resume on this in-app
purchase reporting is Ricardo.
Thank you, Dave.
So In-App Purchas reporting.
For consumables, non-consumables,
and auto renewables,
you log into iTunes Connect,
Sales and Trends module.
You can see your free apps, paid apps,
updates, as well as your In-Apps clicking
on the In-Apps tab across
your weekly and daily views.
We also have iTunes Connect Mobile 1.2,
which was released last week.
An update for push notifications.
Again, a similar review.
Another view of iTunes Connect Mobile.
In the auto-renewable case,
your personal information reports
are available in the Sales and
Trend module in iTunes Connect.
You log in, go to the opt-in report,
and use your opt-in passkey
to unarchive that zip archive.
And now to talk a little about
best practices across all app,
In App Purchases,
I'll bring Max back on stage.
Thank you, Max.
Great.
All right.
Thank you.
So now what I want to do is just walk
you through a few best practices for
implementing In Apps in your application.
The first is to know that
In-App Purchases are not cross-platform,
nor are they cross-application.
Meaning, in-apps are scoped to
a single application.
So when you're restoring,
you're always restoring
to a given application.
Also, virtual currency is allowed
when used within an application,
but it's non-transferable to goods and
services outside of your application.
And again,
to point out what Dave stressed,
AppReview is reviewing a
production-signed application that's
pointed at the sandbox environment.
So to wrap it all up,
I think one thing that you
should definitely take away
from this is that the auto-renew
subscriptions are fairly complex,
and you want to make sure that
you've handled all of the different
cases when implementing them.
Also, restoration of In-App Purchases
is required for non-consumable
as well as subscriptions.
If you're currently using the
non-renewable subscription types,
you want to look at migrating over to
using the auto-renew subscription types.
And for our Mac OS X developers,
Lion is just around the corner,
and the sandbox is ready
for you to start testing.
So for more information,
Bill Dudney is the
Application Frameworks Evangelist.
In addition to the documentation
that Jean-Pierre referenced,
there's also the iTunes
Connect Developer User Guide.
And of course,
we always welcome your feedback
on the Apple Developer Forums.
There's related sessions
directly following this one.
It's a What's New with App Publishing
and iTunes Connect in the Presidio.
And with that,
I'd like to say thank you very much,
and have a good day.